HARI SREENIVASAN: It was a
tumultuous day in the Trump
administration, with a major
shakeup involving the public
faces of the Trump presidency.
All this came among new reports
of conflict within Mr. Trump's
legal team, as they prepare
to respond to the
investigation by special
counsel Robert Mueller.
We break it down now
with Rosalind Helderman,
political enterprise and
investigations reporter
for The Washington Post.
Thanks for joining us.
What's the Trump legal
team's strategy to deal
with this investigation?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN, The
Washington Post: Well, we
reported today that the
legal team is examining
a broad array of options that
would allow it -- or would
lead to the restraining or
restricting of the special
counsel's investigation.
At present, they say they are
cooperating with special counsel
Bob Mueller, but we understand
that they are doing research
into possible conflicts by
Bob Mueller himself, conflicts
of interest or members of his
staff that he is assembling.
Keep in mind that conflict of
interest is one of the only
things in the regulations
establishing the special
counsel that can be used by
the attorney general or in this
case the acting attorney
general, Rod Rosenstein, to
dismiss the special counsel.
So they are looking at that and
a number of other things that
would try to curb this sort
of scope of this
expanding investigation.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Did
any of these conflicts
of interests come up when
Mueller was originally
assigned to the task?
Did Jeff Sessions or anyone
else give him a pass on these?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: Yes,
that's a good question that
we don't entirely know yet.
We do know that President
Trump himself has said that he
interviewed Bob Mueller to be
FBI director very shortly
before his appointment
as special counsel.
One of the conflict that we
reported today the White House
has been examining is, of
all things, Bob Mueller's
membership at the Trump
National Golf Course
in Northern Virginia.
Apparently, White House advisers
tell us there was some variety
of dispute over his membership
fees at that club.
Now, Mueller's office has
told us that's not true.
There was no membership fee
dispute, so we're continuing to
try to learn more about that.
But whatever happened at
the golf club, President
Trump clearly didn't
see it as an impediment
to potentially appointing Bob
Mueller to be FBI director, so
it's interesting that they're
now returning to that topic.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Let's talk
a little bit about the legal
team that seems to be changing,
at least faces, in
the past few days.
ROSALIND HELDERMAN:
That's right.
We saw today the resignation
of Mark Corallo, who had been
sort of the spokesman for the
team.
He had been officially the
spokesman for Marc Kasowitz.
He's a New York-based attorney
who had worked with Donald Trump
on various matters for many
years who has been until
today the leader of this team.
There have been some
reports that he is leaving
the team altogether.
Our reporting is that Kasowitz
is remaining aboard, but is
going to take a reduced role.
The leader now is John Dowd,
who was hired last month, a
veteran Washington litigator.
He had been involved in
the investigation of Pete
Rose of baseball fame.
He's leading the team.
Jay Sekulow, familiar to
television viewers, remains on
the team as sort of its public
face.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The individual
that you mentioned, Mr.
Dowd, actually came out in
The Wall Street Journal and kind
of questioned this reporting
that The Washington Post had
done and said that it's not true
that President Trump and his
team were looking into the act
of possibly pardoning
his aides or himself.
There are multiple lawyers.
Is it just the lawyers that
you spoke to vs. Mr. Dowd?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: So, we
feel very comfortable in
our sourcing for our story.
When he said that this morning,
we did add those comments
-- they were on the record
- - to our story to
reflect his denial.
We feel comfortable that
our story was accurate
and accurately reflected
conversations that
have been going on amongst
this large legal team.
I would note Mr. Dowd gave an
interview to The Wall Street
Journal in which he said that
in fact the legal team is not
at all interested in the topic
of conflicts of interest.
Well, Jay Sekulow was quoted in
that very same story as saying
they are looking at conflicts,
that any reasonable
lawyer would do so.
So there was a conflict right
there in the same story from
two different lawyers for
the team.
HARI SREENIVASAN: If I'm
a lawyer representing
somebody like the
president, wouldn't it be
normal for me to say
let's look at the tools
that my clients have?
If one of the tools includes a
presidential pardon, shouldn't
I just investigate what
the parameters of
that pardon are?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN:
Yes, absolutely.
And as we reported, we
do believe that this
was a conversation about
legal options, that
this wasn't the president saying
that he plans to pardon himself
or that he believes he is
ultimately going to
need a pardon, which
is to say he believes
he's going to be accused
of a crime.
This was a conversation
about legal options and the
powers of the presidency.
How does the president go about
or what's the breadth of his
authority to pardon staff,
to pardon family members,
and indeed what does the
Constitution say and the law say
about a president pardoning
himself, which actually is a
question of rather distinct
dispute in the legal community?
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
and, finally, briefly, in the
sources that you have spoken
with, is the shakeup or
at least the changeover
in the legal team, as
well in the communications
department ,part of
something bigger?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: I think
there's a sort of sense of a
White House on edge right now.
There's a lot of turmoil.
I certainly wouldn't
guarantee that we have seen
the end of the changes.
Of course, we will all note that
the president had those very
harsh words for Attorney General
Jeff Sessions earlier
this week in an interview
with The New York Times.
We're told that people in the
White House were quite surprised
that those comments didn't
result in Jeff
Sessions resigning.
He instead came out and said
he planned to stay on the job.
So, that's in the air.
The chief of staff, Reince
Priebus, there's been many,
many rumors that he's on his way
out.
So, I don't think that the
team is settled by any means.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All
right, Rosalind Helderman
at The Washington Post,
thanks so much for
joining us tonight.
ROSALIND HELDERMAN:
Thank you for having me.